liuliu/add-list-operations-api (#1974)
dolthub/docs: content/products/dolthub/api/database.md

{% swagger src="../../../.gitbook/assets/dolthub-api/listreleases.json" path="/{owner}/{database}/releases" method="get" %}
[listreleases.json](../../../.gitbook/assets/dolthub-api/listreleases.json)
{% endswagger %}

## List operations

> 

Reviewer: I think you need a description here of what this is and why you'd use it before you go into the example.

{% swagger src="../../../.gitbook/assets/dolthub-api/listreleases.json" path="/{owner}/{database}/releases" method="get" %}
[listreleases.json](../../../.gitbook/assets/dolthub-api/listreleases.json)
{% endswagger %}

## List operations

> DoltHub provides support for asynchronous operations, including merging, SQL writing, and file importing. Using the list operations API enables you to monitor the status of the executed operations. For troubleshooting, you can inspect the `error` field within the operation object. And, the `metadata` field offers details of the operation. For instance, in a SQL write operation, the `metadata` will show the query executed, database and branch that the query ran on. To filter a specific type of operation, you can include the `operationType` parameter in the query. Supported operation types are SqlWrite, SqlRead, Import, Merge, and Migrate. The operations list is paginated.
> 
> Here's an example of how to list `SqlWrite` operations initiated by user `liuliu` using an [authorization token](authentication.md).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
DoltHub provides support for asynchronous operations, including merging, SQL writes, and file importing. When you execute one of these operations from the API, you will get an operation name that you can poll using another endpoint to check the operation status and other information.

This API endpoint lets you monitor the status of all the operations you started in one place without needing to poll the endpoints for singular operations. These operations have `error` and `metadata` fields which contain useful information for troubleshooting and debugging.

For example, if you have executed a few SQL write queries using that [API endpoint](link), you can list those operations using the `operationType` query parameter to filter for `SqlWrite` operations. The `metadata` will show the query executed, database and branch that the query ran on, as well as any syntax or other errors you may have encountered.
```
